Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?
A.
The data structures provided by the Java utility package are very powerful and perform a wide range of functions.

What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?
A.
Data type is a way to classify various types of data such as integer, string, etc.

List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?

what is an Array?
A.
Array is a collection of similar type of elements that have a contiguous memory location.
Java array is an object which contains elements of a similar data type.
what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
A.
Major difference between Array and ArrayList in Java is that Array is a fixed length data structure while
ArrayList is a variable length Collection class.
what is LinkedList?
A.
Java LinkedList class uses a doubly linked list to store the elements.
It provides a linked-list data structure.
How is an Array different from Linked List?
A.
An array is the data structure that contains a collection of similar type data elements whereas the Linked list is
considered as non-primitive data structure contains a collection of unordered linked elements known as nodes.
what is queue?
A.
The Queue interface is available in java.util package and extends the Collection interface.
what is stack?
A.
A Stack is a Last In First Out (LIFO) data structure.
It supports two basic operations called push and pop.
what is FIFO and LIFO?
A.
FIFO is an abbreviation for first in, first out. It is a method for handling data structures where the first element is
processed first and the newest element is processed last.
LIFO is an abbreviation for Last in, first out is same as fist in, last out (FILO).

what is the order of complexity?
A.
Time Complexity of algorithm/code is not equal to the actual time required to execute a particular code but the number
of times a statement executes.
what is the best case to search an element from an array?
A.
Binary search in a sorted array.
One of the most important uses of binary search is to find an item in a sorted array.
what is the worst case to search an element from an array?
A.
The worst case to search for an element is to iterate through the entire array and compare each value of that array
with the target element.
When a match is found, we may break out of the loop if we are sure that there exist no duplicate values.

what is tree in data structure?
A.
One reason to use trees might be because you want to store information that naturally forms a hierarchy.

what is graph in data structure?
A.
A graph is a data structure for storing connected data like a network of people on a social media platform.
A graph consists of vertices and edges.
A vertex represents the entity (for example, people) and an edge represents the relationship between entities (for example, a person's friendships).

what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
A.
There are several differences between HashMap and Hashtable in Java:
Hashtable is synchronized, whereas HashMap is not.
This makes HashMap better for non-threaded applications, as unsynchronized Objects typically perform better than
synchronized ones.
HashMap allows one null key and any number of null values.

What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.
How HashMap works in java?
A.
HashMap in Java works on hashing principle. When we call put method, hashcode() method of the key object is called so
that hash function of the map can find a bucket location to store value object,
which is actually an index of the internal array, known as the table.
What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
A.
The index of an array is an integer value that has value in interval [0, n-1], where n is the size of the array.
If a request for a negative or an index greater than or equal to size of array is made,
then the JAVA throws a ArrayIndexOutOfBounds Exception.
This is unlike C/C++ where no index of bound check is done.

What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
A.
There are mainly four different ways to copy all elements of one array into another array in Java.
1. Manually
2. Arrays.copyOf()
3. System.arraycopy()
4. Object.clone()

What is difference between an array and a linked list?
A.
The major difference between Array and Linked list regards to their structure.
Arrays are index based data structure where each element associated with an index.
What is DFS and BFS?
A.
A Tree is typically traversed in two ways:

Breadth First Traversal (Or Level Order Traversal)
Depth First Traversals
Inorder Traversal (Left-Root-Right)
Preorder Traversal (Root-Left-Right)
Postorder Traversal (Left-Right-Root)
What is Recursion?
A.
Recursion is a basic programming technique you can use in Java, in which a method calls itself to solve some problem.
A method that uses this technique is recursive.
Many programming problems can be solved only by recursion, and some problems that can be solved by
other techniques are better solved by recursion.

What are linear and non linear data Structures?
A.
In the linear data structure,
the data is organized in a linear order in which elements are linked one after the other.

What is Big-(O)-notation?
A.
Big O notation is the language we use for talking about how long an algorithm takes to run.
Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?
A.
A sorting algorithm is an algorithm that puts elements of a list in a certain order.
The most frequently used orders are numerical order and lexicographical order.

Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of Accessing element.
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.


